---
title: "A tutorial about NeoVim"
date: 2024-02-04
description: "A hand by hand guide for who is new to vim"
tags: [IDE, vim]
---

# Introduction
Once you see a post discussing the IDE, there are always some guys who brag about VIM,  while the others curse it.
Genuine knowledge comes from practice, so I decided to give it a try.
And as you can see, I successfully became a vimer. 
I don't mean that you should use VIM; what fits is the best, but if you don't try, you will never know whether it is a piece of shit or a piece of cake.

This tutorial is for people who want to try. I will guide you step by step to make your own IDE based on NeoVim.

Before we start, please **Make Sure** you know some basic commands, such as how to edit/save file and how to exit vim. If you don't, just search it on Google.

# Plugin manager 

If you are familiar with vscode, you will know what "plugin" is. Vscode provides the user with a built-in plugin manager and official website for users to 
publish, search, and download plugins. But Neovim doesn't; you need to install a plugin manager first, and search for your desired plugin on GitHub. 

Let's create a sample file: 

```cpp
#include <iostream> 

int main(){
  std::cout<<"Hello Neovim"<<std::endl;
  return 0 ;
}

```
Open it with Neovim; as you can see, there is no line number, no completion, and only highlighting.

Edit your `~/.config/nvim/init.lua`, add a single line, then open it again. You will see the line number if there is no problem. 

```lua
vim.opt["number"]=true;
```

Now that you know how to configure Neovim, you can follow [this guide](https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim) to install `lazy.nvim`, which is the best plugin manager for Neovim.

Now install your first plugin: [the Nord theme](https://github.com/shaunsingh/nord.nvim): 

```lua 
require("lazy").setup({
	{
		"shaunsingh/nord.nvim",
		priority = 1000,
	},
})
vim.cmd.colorscheme("nord")
```

If you don't like, you can choose your desired theme by searching on GitHub. There is a [repo](https://github.com/rockerBOO/awesome-neovim) which is highly recommanded


# Completion




